# Jeffery Lai (j8lai@ucsd.edu)

Section B06 Rajesh Gupta

**1. What is the most interesting topic covered in your domain this quarter?**
This quarter, we looked into the realm of Human Activity Recognition (HAR) and its intersection with deep learning models. The application of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) in HAR has been the primary focus of our project. The intriguing part lies in optimizing these models for its specific hardware, as there is room for improvements in speed and efficiency. Since DNNs are versatile and optimized for various applications, exploring ways to enhance their performance in the context of HAR is both challenging and promising.

**2. Describe a potential investigation you would like to pursue for your Quarter 2 Project.**
We are focusing on investigating methods to speed up the predictions generated by HAR hardware, since they are running on limited hardware space. This project not only aligns with our current research but also presents an opportunity to contribute solutions to a practical problem in the field. We seek to accomplish this by simulating the model by using a recently developed tool Astra Sim, which takes the execution traces of the model running. By playing around with the simulator, we can optimize the most frequent and computationally expensive operations to reduce bottlenecking in the training.

**3. What is a potential change you’d make to the approach taken in your current Quarter 1 Project?**
While our initial focus was on measuring execution traces and optimizing hardware for frequent operations, a shift in perspective suggests a more pure hardware level optimization strategy. Instead of solely concentrating on post-execution enhancements, we could explore ways to optimize the hardware itself. This shift implies a more proactive approach, seeking improvements at the foundational level. By optimizing the hardware architecture, we could potentially achieve more significant and additional enhancements in the overall performance of our project.

**4. What other techniques would you be interested in using in your project?**
We have looked into multiple ways in converting the execution traces into Chakra ET traces, since our initial approach did not work as the tools were poorly documented. We are looking for ways to bypass having to use Chakra as we can also use the param converter created by Meta. Our end goal is to get a complete execution trace which combines the operations of the CPU and all GPUs when running the model and then plug it into the Astra sim, which is a distributed systems simulator. From here, we can see how our proposed modifications to the hardware would impact the performance of the model.
